'''(FOUO) Prior to Alert Crew arrival''' ensure a sweep of the Alert Crew Billets (BLdg #917) has been completed prior to aircrew arrival. '''Note:''' If an explosive detection capable Military Working Dog (MWD) team is not available, the Flightline [[ESRT]] will conduct the sweep of the building. This is not a tactical sweep: patrols will be looking for obvious contraband or explosive items. All rooms and cabinets must be searched. use the master key provided by the lodging staff (located in the east billeting front desk, Bldg #22016) to conduct the sweep. Notify [[SSCC]] when sweep has been initiated and completed. '''(FOUO)''' After the crew has accepted security of the crew billets, the Flightline [[ESRT]] will make periodic security checks of the building (not to exceed every two (2) hours). '''Note:''' Checks of the facility will be documented in the [[SSCC]] blotter. '''(DCNI)''' Prepare to receive Alert Crew in [[FPCON Charlie]] and higher: Alert Crew Billets EC will stay at the laundry room door and control entry into the building and Alert Crew Billets CBSs will post as indicated in paragraph 1.4.2.2.2. '''(DCNI)''' When the crew bus arrives, the EC for Bldg #917 will contact the Mission Commander and direct him/her to their room, #454. The [[REFLEX DELTA]] [[SRT]] will contact the [[REFLEX DELTA]] lodging representative and advise him/her of the location of the front desk. '''(DCNI)''' [[RELFEX DELTA]] [[SRT]] Leader will brief the Airborne Emergency Action Officer (AEAO) and the Mission Commander on the following:
*'''(FOUO)''' The Alert Crew Billets EC will control entry and exit through the west entrance door. '''Note''' Limited entry can be permitted through the laundry room door.