[[Category:SFG ALL]]
===FCC and FC Contingency Operating Procedures===

'''(FOUO)''' FCC, FC and/or appropriate [[AS]] will respond to all [[Security Incidents]] or [[Covered Wagon]] situations to assume on-scene command and oversee resolution of the incident. The flightline [[External Security Response Team (ESRT)]] will respond immediately to all incidents on the flightline not to exceed five (5) minutes and assume initial on-scene command until the arrival of [[FCC]] or [[FC]]. '''(FOUO)''' Termination authority for a [[Security Incident]] is the on-duty [[FCC]] and/or [[FC]]. The termination authority for a [[Covered Wagon]] is the 377th Air Base Wing Commander (ABW/CC) through [[Kirtland Command Post|Kirtland Command Post (KCP)]]. '''(DCNI)''' The [[FCC/FC|FCC and/or FC]] will meet all arriving [[REFLEX DELTA (RD)]] aircraft, obtain and authenticate crew orders as an [[Entry Authority List (EAL)]] and oversee implementation of all appropriate security measures. '''(DCNI)''' Flight leadership will meet with the TCC (Tactical Convoy Commander) at the golf course for DoE [[SGT]] (Safeguard Transport) missions to act as a liaison for the command element until the mission is complete. In addition, if an incident occurs within [[KUMMSC]], the on duty [[FC/FCC]] will be on-scene commander and if an incident occurs topside, DoE will be the on-scene commander.<ref name="one">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%201%20AFGSC.pdf Flightline security] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 2, para 1.5-1.5.4). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

===Security Incident/Covered Wagons===

'''(FOUO)'''A [[Security Incident]] is an unclassified message relayed by restricted area owner/user personnel or SF to SSCC, BDOC or KCP of an unusual incident possibly hostile, affecting PL 1, 2, or 3 resources. '''(FOUO)''' Once an [[ISRT]] identifies a [[Security Incident]], the offending individuals will be challenged, escorted out of the restricted area and placed at a disadvantage away from [[PL]] resources. The [[ISRT]] will contact [[SSCC]] and relay all pertinent information. '''(FOUO)''' The Flightline [[ESRT]] will respond and take custody of the suspects until arrival of responding SFS patrolman. Once [[ESRT]] takes custody, all affected ISRT units will complete a 100% purge of their areas of responsibility. '''FOUO)''' The Installation Commander has delegated authority to terminate [[Security Incidents]] to be the on-duty [[FCC/FC]]. Upon termination, SSCC will notify [[KCP]].

'''(FOUO)''' A [[Covered Wagon]] report is an unclassified up-channel telephone report sent up to [[SSCC]], [[BDOC]] or [[KCP]] of an unusual incident probably or actually hostile, affecting PL 1, 2, or 3 resources has occurred at an installation or dispersed site. '''(FOUO)'''The on-duty [[FCC/FC]] or higher authority can request the termination of the [[Covered Wagon]] through [[SSCC]]. [[SSCC]] will request through [[KCP]] the Installation Commander, or designee to terminate the [[Covered Wagon]].<ref name="two">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%202%20AFGSC.pdf Flightline security] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 2, para 4.1-4.1.2.1). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

<references />