[[Category:TDY]]
[[Category:Fort Bliss]]
[[Category:Tier 3]]
==COURSE INFORMATION==
Tier Training is designed to provide skills training for the entire Security Forces enterprise that is relevant both at home station and in expeditionary environments. Attendees will receive standardized training in tactics, techniques, and procedures commensurate with their expected duties and responsibilities.
==SCHEDULING INSTRUCTIONS==
Seats are scheduled by the Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC) RTC Scheduling Cell (S3TS) based on requirements identified in deployment line remarks, Theater Entry Requirements, and [http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a4/publication/afi36-2646/afi36-2646.pdf AFI 36-2646/Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Program].
:<span style="color:red">Sustainment Training Request: To schedule seats, UDM/UTMs must complete and submit the UDM Information Sheet to AFSFC/S3TS (afsfc.fgcr.rtcscheduling@us.af.mil) NLT thirty (30) days prior to scheduled course start date. Each MAJCOM are allotted a number amount of seats for each course. For example, if AFGSC is allotted ten (10) seats per course and AFGSC requests ten (12) seats, the additional two (2) will be added to the stand-by roster. Twenty-five (25) days prior to schedule course start date, AFSFC/S3TS will begin moving names from the stand-by roster if availability exists. Refer to AFSFC/S3TS POC listing on page 7 of this reporting instruction for any questions. UDM Information Sheets must be filled out in their entirety (or maximum extent possible NLT the thirty (30) prior to scheduled course start date, and updated as information becomes available). NOTE: a separate UDM Information Sheet must be submitted for each course/course date. UDM Information Sheets which are incomplete (and without justification) or on outdated forms will not be accepted and returned for correction. Once member(s) are scheduled, AFSFC/S3TS will send confirmation to the UDM/UTMs original email request and in turn, will forward UDM Information Sheet to the Desert Defender. All additional requests to schedule/cancel training must be coordinated through AFSFC/S3TS Scheduling Cell. *Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve will still utilize each respective MAJCOM(s) FFunction Area Manager (FAM) to request changes with the ARC scheduling liaison.</span>

:<span style="color:red">Pre-Deployment Training Request: UDMs must first reference the Pre-Deployment Training Tool (PDTT) within AEF Online (https://aefonline.afpc.randolph.af.mil/default.aspx) to verify if ULN is scheduled. AFSFC/S3TS schedules all new ULN tasking's in advance. To schedule a ULN, UDMs will utilize each respective MAJCOM(s) Functional Area Manager (FAM) to request and/or reschedule training. Once member(s) are scheduled, AFSFC/S3TS will update PDTT. UDMs must complete and submit the UDM Information Sheet (Attachment 1) to AFSFC/S3TS (afsfc.fgcr.rtcscheduling@us.af.mil) NLT thirty (30) days prior to scheduled course start date. Refer to AFSFC/S3TS POC listing on page 7 of this reporting instruction for any questions. UDM Information Sheets must be filled out in their entirety (or maximum extent possible) NLT the thirty (30) day mark, and updated as information becomes available. UDM Information Sheets which are incomplete (and without justification) or on outdated forms will not be accepted and returned for correction. Once received, AFSFC/S3TS will forward the UDM Information Sheet to the Desert Defender.</span>

:If the student will not be able to attend the scheduled class for any reason, contact the AFSFC/S3TS as soon as possible, preferably NLT two (2) weeks prior to the class start date. Students traveling to RTC via CED orders: Student Information Sheets with missing travel information may be submitted while travel arrangements are pending, however travel information must be submitted NLT 14 days prior to the scheduled class start date.

;Special Religious Exceptions
Due to decreased shelf life and limited availability of special preparation Meals Ready to Eat (MRE), UDMs must identify members who require Halal or Kosher MREs NLT 21 days prior to the beginning of scheduled training. Fort Bliss has limited supply on hand, and ordering can take up to two (2) weeks for delivery. Failure to identify can lead to an inability to accommodate student requests.
==PREREQUISITE TRAINING==
All students attending Tier training for pre-deployment must be complete and be current in all Total FOrce Awareness Training (TFAT), Basic Airman Readiness (BAR) and Basic Deployment Readiness (BDR) tasks, CFETP skill-level associated tasks, and Security Forces Combat Readiness Tasks (CRT) per [http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a4/publication/afi36-2646/afi36-2646.pdf AFI 36-2646] prior to arrival.

All Students must arrive with the following items:
#Verified Common Access Card (CAC) ID (members should know PIN #)
#Dog tags worn on person
#Government Travel Card (GTC)
#Commander's Training Certification Letter (Deployers only)
#[http://dcron.in/resources/files/wiki/files/Fort%20Bliss%20-%20Tier%203%20Orders.pdf Copy of orders], 3 sets (1 copy to be turned in at in-processing; 1 copy to be maintained by student; spare copy)
#AF FM 522, USAF Ground Weapons Safety Datea (N/A to Tier 4)
#Non-laminated AF FM 2293/Gov Driver's License and Civilian Driver's License (Current/Valid)
#[http://dcron.in/resources/files/wiki/files/AF422aPdf.pdf AF FM 422] (Indicating NO limiting condition or profile)
#[http://dcron.in/resources/files/wiki/files/be149e1b-6ff3-457f-b9f0-a4d4f2f16d84.pdf(1).pdf Desert Defender Medical Questionnaire], COMPLETE (Attachment 2)
#Note taking material
#Unit Emergency Contact Info (POCs, Email/DSN/Comm/After Hours
==MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS==
Students are not required to hand carry medical records for this course (unless deploying forward from training). Students will arrive with the [http://dcron.in/resources/files/wiki/files/be149e1b-6ff3-457f-b9f0-a4d4f2f16d84.pdf(1).pdf Desert Defender Medical Questionnaire] (Attachment 2) filled out and complete. All documents will be collected during in-processing. '''<u>DO NOT</u>''' send medical forms via e-mail due to HIPAA laws. All deploying personnel must be world-wide qualified. Direction questions regarding Medical Requirements to NCOIC, Desert Defender Medical Flight.
==SECURITY CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS==
No security clearance requirement currently exists to attend this training.
==UNIFORMS, WEAPONS, AND EQUIPMENT==
OCP (Multi-Cam), ABU, or the Air Force PT uniforms are the only uniforms authorized for wear at RTC training unless otherwise noted. The Air Force PT uniform is the only authorized clothing during non-duty hours. Mixing and matching uniform items is not authorized. All Military members traveling via commercial air must travel in civilian clothing. (Desert Defender recommends members bring four (4) sets of OCPs/ABUs and four (4) PT uniforms.) Applicable patrol cap (ABU/OCP) is the only authorized student headwear in the Fort Bliss garrison. Boonie hats are authorized in the training areas. Contractor style hats (i.e. mesh, baseball, etc.) are not authorized in garrison or the training area. Dog tags must be worn by all individuals throughout the duration of training at Desert Defender; this includes medical tags if applicable.

Reflective belts are mandatory during non-training hours on Ft Bliss during inclement weather and nighttime hours. Reflective belts are mandatory during physical training when conducted outside a hardened facility. All personnel are required to bring the equipment listed in the RTC Equipment List. Equipment short-falls should be coordinated with AFSFC/S3TS RTC Scheduling Cell prior to arrival at Tier training. Students are required to bring IOTV/OTV body armor '''with''' Level IV plates (Level III acceptable for training purposes) and ACH Helmet with helmet band and cover. Plate carriers may be authorized by home-station Commander.

<span style="color:red">All personnel in Tier training will be provided the applicable weapon systems for training use by Desert Defender Combat Arms section. Personnel tasked for a deployment must bring their home-station issued weapons to Tier training. Personnel tasked for deployment departing from Fort Bliss immediately upon completion of training, to a location that DOES NOT allow weapons brought in to theater, will be issued at Desert Defender.</span>
==FUNDING/ORDERS==
<span style="color:red">Sustainment Training Funding: If member is attending for sustainment requirements, UDM/UTM will schedule member(s) by sending the UDM information sheet to the AFSFC/S3TS org box (Page 7). By providing the Social Security number on the UDM information sheet, AFSFC/S3TS will provide the SS# to the AFSFC/Budget and Resource office to assign the Line of Accounting (LOA). AFSFC/Budget and Resource office will then email the LOA to member(s) so DTS orders can be generated by member. Member(s) must attach the LOA email to the DTS order. DTS orders/vouchers will route through the member's unit for processing. Individual needs to have a DTS account created and an updated profile. Units need to identify individuals without a GTC well in advance, as they will require a fund cite letter from AFSFC/Budget office.</span>

Students deploying directly after training must arrive on CED orders with travel to the designated APOE already coordinated. Units will use local funds with the appropriate ESP code. Personnel returning to home station immediately following training will arrive on DD FM 1610 orders using DTS. Units will use local funds with the appropriate OCO-reimbursable ESP code. All personnel will be billeted in student dormitories upon arrival at no cost. '''<u>All travel orders should state "all meals are provided at government expense at no cost to the member".</u>''' Students are responsible to pay for meals on travel days and are not authorized full per diem. '''<u>Additionally, travel orders should state "DFAC hours are not conducive to the training environment and may not be accessible. MREs will be provided when training precludes the use of the DFAC".</u>''' During the classroom phase of training iterations, all attempts will be made to afford two hot meals daily; however, training requirements may preclude this. At least one hot meal every 24 hours will be provided when students are in field conditions. MREs will be provided for all meals where DFAC availability is not conducive to training.
==TRANSPORTATION==
UDMs are responsible for making all travel arrangements prior to members arriving at RTC. Desert Defender staff will not make travel arrangements for students. UDM's will make every effort to utilize air transportation to Desert Defender. In the event procuring a GOV/Rental vehicle is cost efficient to the United States Air Force, vehicle travel coordination must be routed through AFSFC/S3TS, RTC Scheduling Cell for approval. Appropriate documentation (DTS Constructed Travel Worksheet-Authorization) will be required prior to approval. For students who are scheduled for APOE at Biggs AAF, UDMs must coordinate with Fort Bliss Directorate of Mobilization and Deployment (DoMAD) as soon as possible. DoMAD can provide support services for travel, lodging and transportation for students remaining at Biggs AAF for rotator travel upon graduation.
<blockquote>Directorate of Mobilization and Deployment(DoMAD)<br>Chaffee Road, Building 1010 Fort Bliss, Texas 79916<br>COMM: (915) 569-8748<br>DSN: 978-8748</blockquote>
Students must arrive at the El Paso International Airport between '''<u>0730 and 1800</u>''' hours on the designated travel date.
:Students arriving without prior coordination after 1800 hrs on the designated arrival date will need to arrange their own lodging and transportation at their unit's expense. Students arriving late will call the Tactical Operations Center (TOC) (refer to POC list below). If unable to contact the TOC they will report to: BLDG 2441 Carring Rd, Ft Bliss, TX 79916 at 0800 hrs '''the next day'''. Students experiencing flight delays need to stay in contact and update new arrival times with their UDM/UTM and the TOC (refer to POC list below).
Desert Defender will provide transportation from the El Paso International Airport to Fort Bliss for in-processing. Upon arrival at the airport, all personnel will be received by a member from Desert Defender at the baggage claim area. Students will depart '''<u>no earlier than 0600 hours</u>''' on the day of travel following course graduation. Refer to the course timeline for the designated travel day. Departures earlier than the prescribed travel day must be coordinated in advance through the AFSFC/S3TS RTC Scheduling Cell.
===Desert Defender GCRTC Points of Contact===
{| 
|Desert Defender Org Box
|
|NIPR: <u>usarmy.bliss.3-asog.mbx.desert-defender-udm-spreadsheets@mail.mil</u>
|-
|Operations Superintendent
|DSN: 979-5090<br>COMM: 915-569-5090
|
|-
|NCOIC, Future Operations
|DSN: 979-5088<br>COMM: 915-569-5088
|
|-
|NCOIC, Current Operations
|DSN: 979-5082<br>COMM:915-569-5082
|
|-
|Tactical Operations Center (TOC)
|CELL: 915-539-5734
|** SOC afterhous contact **
|-
|NCOIC, Medical Flight
|DSN: 621-2090<br>COMM: 915-744-2090
|
|}
===AFSFC Points of Contact===
{| class="wikitable"
|RTC Scheduling Cell
|DSN: 945-7997/5133<br>COMM: 210-925-7997/5133<br>CELL: 210-240-8585
|Email: afsfc.fgcr.rtcscheduling@us.af.mil<br>SIPR: casey.m.pearson.mil@mail.smil.mil
|}
===ATTACHMENT 4: Individual Packing list <span style="color:red">(N/A to Tier 4 Students)</span>===
*(1) Rifleman DFLCS Kit
*(1) Set of Dog Tags to include medical tag (if applicable) ('''must be worn on person throughout training''')
*(1) IOTV/OTV Body Armor '''<u>with</u>''' Level IV Plates (Level III acceptable for training) or AFCENT and Unit Commander approved Plate Carrier (See attachment 3: AFCENT IOTV/Plate Carrier Policy Memorandum) (Level III A plates '''ARE NOT AUTHORIZED''')
*(1) Advanced Combat Helmet
*(1 pair) APEL Approved Ballistic Resistant Eyewear
*(1 pair) APEL Approved Ballistic Resistant Goggles w/Cover Sleeve
*(1) ABU/ACU/OCP Pattern ACH Helmet Cover
*(2 sets) Combat Earplugs w/Case
*(1) Hydration System, 100oz
*(1) Tactical Radio Pouch
*(1 pair) Elbow Pads
*(1 pair) Knee Pads
*(1) Reflective Belt
*(1) Safariland 6005 Holster w/SLS Sentry in the drop configuration so that it rests on the thigh ('''THIS IS THE ONLY APPROVED HOLSTER AND CONFIGURATION''')
*(1) Tactical Pistol Lanyard, Coiled
*(1 pair) Impact Gloves
===ATTACHMENT 5: Weapon Accessories List <span style="color:red">(N/A to Tier 4 Students)</span>===
'''IF BRINGING HOME STATION WEAPON, ALL MEMBERS REQUIRE:'''
*(1) M4 Carbine Rifle
*(1) M9 Pistol
*(1) Adaptor Rail, Weapon Mounted M4
*(1) M68 Close Combat Optic
*(1) Advanced Combat Optic Gunsight (ACOG), if authorized
*(1) AN/PEQ-15 OR (1) AN/PEQ-2A
*(1) M3X Tactical Illuminator w/Dual Button Remote:
*(1) Vertical grip w/Bipod
*(1) Mounting Bracket
*(1) Patriot 1-inch Flashlight Mount
*(1) Pelican Flashlight M6, 2320
*(1) Red Lens Filter, Pelican M6, 2320
*(1) Blank Firing Adapter yellow


<references />