[[Category:SFG ALL]]
This instruction establishes the procedures for personnel assigned security duties for downed rotary/fixed wing aircraft.
===(FOUO) Commanders Intent===
:The S3O, S3, or CC will be personally involved in all downed aircraft scenarios. SF will depart the installation as soon as possible to avoid delay with all required equipment (as listed in paragraph 3.4 below). Prior to departure ensure the response team has approval from the 377 ABW/CC (via [[KCP]]) and 377 WSSS/CC (377 WSSS/S3 in the event CC is unavailable).
===(FOUO) Responsibilties===
:A minimum of two (2) SF personnel, to include one (1) Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO), will be posted unless directed otherwise by S3O or higher authority.
===(FOUO) Post Limits===
:The area immediately adjacent to the downed aircraft, but not to exceed 50 meters from the resource except in cases of emergencies or as needed to conduct communication status checks with [[SSCC]]. The NCO may adjust posting, depending on the circumstances.
===Uniform/Equipment===
:'''(FOUO)''' SF personnel posted on a downed aircraft will have all equipment required for daily posting and will be armed with a [[M4]] and [[M9]]. Personnel will take a downed aircraft bag maintained in the S3 storage closet (the keys are located in the [[KUMMSC]] armory). Members will obtain a unit SAT phone from the [[KUMMSC]] armory. Equipment will be accounted for and signed out via AF Form 1297, ''Temporary Issue Receipt'', prior to being posted. The downed aircraft bags are sealed and accounted for on AF Form 1473, ''Gun Equipment Room Inventory''. Once the mission is complete, the bag will be returned to Bldg #27494 for inventory and replacement of any used items prior to being returned to the storage closet.
===Procedures===
;Security Forces Actions
:The [[SSCC]] will be notified by [[KCP]] of a downed aircraft that cannot return to KAFB. Notifications coming directly from the 58 SOW Wing Operating Center (WOC) will be re-directed to the [[KCP]] after receiving unofficial notification. Ensure 377 ABW Safety is notified through the [[KCP]] and/or standby person, after normal duty hours (846-3777). The [[SSCC]] will notify [[FCC/FC]] of the situation. Ascertain from the on-duty flight chief if there are any extra personnel on flight. If there are no stand-by personnel, contact S3 staff for additional personnel. Ensure proper chain-of-command notifications are made as quickly as possible in accordance with approved checklists. '''Note:''' For on-base downed aircraft, contact [[BDOC]] and request a police patrol dispatched to the crash site immediately. Determine if there are any stand-by vehicles. '''Note:''' If stand-by vehicles are available, ensure they are inspected in accordance with AF Form 1800, ''Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report'', and prepare them for possible deployment (i.e. full tank of gas, spare tire, jack, lug wrench, fluid levels, etc.). If there are no standby vehicles, contact the 377 WSSS/S4V, Vehicles NCO or the 377 SFG/S4V. [[SSCC]] will notify the S3, S3O and S5 of the situation and advise them of the status of extra personnel and vehicles. They will designate personnel for posting, if required. These personnel, when notified, will respond to the [[KUMMSC]] armory for downed aircraft equipment issue. [[SSCC]] will coordinate with the 58 SOW WOC, 846-0160, or appropriate agency for directions to the downed aircraft (to include grid coordinates). [[SSCC]], as needed, should contact the S4 to arrange equipment issue and 377 WSSS/S4V or 377 SFG/S4V personnel if vehicle support is needed. Use the recall roster during non-duty hours. If SF members will be driving to the location of the downed aircraft, an off road capable (4x4) vehicle will be used. [[SSCC]], ensure 58 SOW has made contact with the local law enforcement agency responsible for the area where the downed aircraft is located. [[SSCC]] will provide the response team with the contact information of the local law enforcement agency and 58 SOW will notify the law enforcement agency of the situation and that USAF SF will be armed in the area. Responding personnel will await arrival of transport at a location designated by the [[FCC/FC]]. The location will be the [[KUMMSC]] Armory or 58 SOW, Bldg #1020. Individuals designated as members of the follow-on element will report to the [[KUMMSC]] Armory and receive a safety and use of force briefing from the on-duty [[FCC/FC]].
'''(DCNI) National Defense Areas (NDA).''' In the event an aircraft crashes off-base, and/or certain PL aircraft must make an unscheduled landing at a civilian airport or other unplanned emergencies occur, it may be necessary to establish an NDA.
:'''DCNI''' NDAs are established when necessary to secure PL 1, 2, or 3 resources located off the installation on lands not under the jurisdiction or administration of, or in the custody of, Department of Defense (DoD) or a military department of DoD. 377 ABW/CC is the only person authorized to establish a NDA (377 ABW/CV may establish an NDA if contact cannot be made with 377 ABW/CC). The size of the NDA must be reasonably related to what is needed to protect the resource. Make the perimeter of the NDA with temporary barriers and Air Force Visual Aid 31-102, Restricted Area Sign-National Defense if available. To the maximum extent possible, the consent and cooperation of the landowner should be sought when establishing an NDA. If hostile and/or terrorist actions were involved, [[SSCC]] will contact AFOSI to have the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) respond and assume control. All personnel entering the area will be logged onto the AF Form 1109. [[SSCC]] will accomplish a blotter entry and notifications unless otherwise directed by 377 WSSS/S3O or higher.
:'''(FOUO) [[Rules of Engagement]] (Use of Deadly Force).''' All personnel must make every effort short of using deadly force to halt unlawful entry, loss of resources  must be thoroughly familiar with guidelines set forth in AFI 31-117 and KAFB IDP 31-101. A [[Rules of Engagement]] briefing will be given by the [[FCC/FC]] or above prior to departure to the area. To the greatest degree possible notify and allow civilian authorities to handle civilian arrest and detention. If local civil authorities are not present, military personnel may detain violators or trespassers. Work with the JA office to release violators and trespassers to proper authorities as soon a reasonably practical. In the event of a radio communication loss the SF member will try to regain communication via satellite phone. If contact still cannot be made, one (1) member can leave the immediate area to attempt to regain communication, this member should stay within visual range of the other member and the resource. In the event of an extreme emergency, team members may leave the immediate area to regain communications, however as soon as information is relayed ensure expedited return to the resource.
'''Media Personnel Procedures.''' For an aircraft accident resulting in a complete base response, all media personnel will be directed to the Incident Command Post, which will be located in the general vicinity of the ECP. If the media should approach with questions as to what has happened, refer them to the Public Affairs/Information Office (846-5991). The only personnel authorized to be in the area will be aircrew, maintenance, medical, fire department, SF, and any other person(s) the on-scene commander authorizes.<ref name="one">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%202%20AFGSC.pdf Flightline security] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 2, ch 3). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

<references />