[[Category:SFG ALL]]
<u>SITUATION</u>: An unidentified unmanned aerial system that has been spotted landing, attempted landing, hovering or flying over/near restricted areas and its intent/purpose is unknown. (FOUO) Limiting Factors. The active runway and associated taxiways are owned by the city of Albuquerque and USAF use is on a leased basis. All flight operations will be controlled by the FAA. <u>SECURITY OBJECTIVE</u>: To provide the [[KCP]] fixed field sites with interim guidance for the development and implementation of response protocols, to include administrative and investigative procedures, to address potential threats posed by sUAS not approved (unsanctioned) for operations within airspace over (KAFB) property. This guidance will be updated as technologies, Federal regulations and/or Departmental policies are promulgated to respond to the threat. <u>REPORTING AND ALERTING ACTION</u>: Initiate Security Incident situation if affecting PL 1, 2, or 3 resources. If determine hostile, upgrade to a Covered Wagon situation and initiate FPCON Delta measures. Security Forces will keep a safe distance along with a visual of the sUAS and maintain contact with Site (SSCC). KCP will be notified immediately, subsequent notifications will include Department Of Defense (DOD), FBI, FAA, Defense Nuclear Security (DNS), Local Law Enforcement Agencies (LLEAs). KCP will report using Rule 9B for Unauthorized Air Vehicle/Military Installation Airspace/Intrusion when notified by Security Forces of any civilian remotely piloted aircraft (RPA), unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), gyrocopter, or similar.
===EXECUTION===
Concept of Operations: The 377 WSSS will provide the required patrol/response coverage for sUAS when located on KAFB flightline. ALthough the definitions of sUAS denial and detection for PL 1 resources infer separate concepts, Security Forces response to either incident is essentially the same. Variations in the Inccident Commander Operations are a product of evaluation and direction of the Security Incident Commander. In either instance Security Forces must maintain the capability for an immediate/rapid initial response to effectively neutralize the incident and as directed by the Security Incident Commander.
====(FOUO) Tasks====
(FOUO) The FAA Tower, 58 SOW WOC, 150 SOW Command Post or 377 MXS/MXO will notify WSSS/SSCC in the event of an unannounced sUAS has been detected.
(FOUO) The 377 WSSS senior security representative will:
:Ensure Security Forces keep a safe distance and at a minimum notify WSSS/SSCC with last known location, direction of travel, altitude (how far off ground), size, shape, color, activity (hovering, circling, etc.) and any distinguishing features (camera, emission of liquid or vapor, attachment hanging from it, etc.). Patrols should utilize the SALUTE report to transmit information.
(FOUO) If a device capable of still images or video footage is available from the on-duty Flight Chief they will attempt to capture images/footage of the sUAS and provide to higher authorities and/or IC.
:(FOUO) Do not attempt to interfere with the flight path of the sUAS.
(FOUO) If a sUAS has landed or is observed on the ground within KAFB ensure the above notifications have been made. Do not tamper with or make contact with sUAS. Provide a carbon appropriate to size of sUAS and treat as unknown/suspicious package and exercise extreme caution. Maintain visual of object if applicable.
:(FOUO) If the sUAS discharges any substance don a protective mask (M-60/MCU-2AP), move to a safe location up-wind and attempt to maintain visual.
(FOUO) The Security Forces must be in a position to provide a high volume of fire able to be directed towards sUAS in order to disable if it becomes hostile (i.e. Firing, projectiles, etc.). Ensure positions do not hinder from defeating enemy ground forces if encountered.
(FOUO) WSSS/SSCC/SFS/BDOC will:
:(DCNI) Up-channel all required reports; i.e., Security Incident/Covered Wagon to the KCP and continually update the KCP on status of situation. (DCNI) Advise all post patrols not to fire on the sUAS unless the vehicle initiates hostile actions. (FOUO) Initiate a SFG recall if sUAS is deemed hostile. Instruct personnel not to respond until directed by the IC. Personnel will remain on standby in the FBF formation area until dispatched or the situation terminates. (DCNI) Detection and Warning. All personnel must be aware of the possibility of unmanned aerial systems and immediately notify WSSS/SSCC/SFS/BDOC and KCP of all sUAS sightings within KAFB flightline area. (FOUO) Provide assistance to the IC as well as monitor direct IC Security Forces. (FOUO) If REFLEX DELTA is involved, ensure adequate Security Forces respond and are recalled to ensure mission capability. (DCNI) If KUMMSC, Protection Level 1 resource movements, SAAM aircraft and the flightline are simultaneously attacked, exposed resources will have the priority, followed by KUMMSC and then the flightline. Comply with Annex Z for further guidance on KUMMSC, Protection Level 1 resource movements, and SAAM aircraft.
(FOUO) Civil Engineering and EOD Support will: (FOUO) In support to sUAS, refer to Annex A. (FOUO) Provide support to the security operations contained within this plan. Support details identified in annexes, appendices, exhibits, tabs, or enclosures to this plan.<ref name="one">377 Air Base Wing. (2017). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)(DOD%20UCNI)%20KAFB%20IDP%202017%20IC%20%233.pdf Integrated defense plan] (KAFB IDP 2017 IC #3, p. 126-128). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

<references />