[[Category:SFG ALL]]
'''Hostage/Barricaded Subjects.''' Hostage/Barricaded Subject responses will be [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DOD%20UCNI)%20KAFB%20IDP%202017%20IC%20%233.pdf IAW KAFB IDP 31-101], ''Appendix 1 to Annex M, Hostage Negotiations, Tab A to Appendix 1 to Annex M, Emergency Service Team (EST) Employment, Tab C to Appendix 1 to Annex M, Hostage/Barricaded Situations'', AFMAN 31-201 Volume 4, ''High Risk Response, Chapter 3, Chapter 5 and Chapter 6'' and applicable QRCs.

'''Active Shooter/Workplace Violence.'''j Active Shooter/Workplace Violence responses will be IAW KAFB 10-245, ''Kirtland Air Force Base Installation Antiterrorism Plan, Tab E to Appendix 5 to Annex C, Active Shooter Response Plan'' and, AFMAN 31-201 Volume 4, ''High Risk Response, Chapter 2, Countering Threats'' and applicable QRCs.
:Once the shooter is neutralized, the focus shifts to full scale recovery operations. Recovery Operations will be handled according to KAFBIEMP 10-2, ''Installation Emergency Management (EM) Plan''. AFOSI or the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) will determine jurisdiction of the crime scene. However, the lead investigative agency is the final authority for entry control to the crime scene area(s). Crime scene contamination will be considered but will not be the primary focus while wounded are being treated and evacuated. Ensure all individuals that evacuated the crime scene are sequestered to a safe location until screened by the leading investigative agency, individuals can only be released by the lead investigating agency.<ref name="one">377 Security Forces Squadron. (2017). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/SFS%20OI_31-118.pdf Law enforcement standards and procedures] (377 SFS OI 31-118, para. 5.32-5.33.1). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

<references />