[[Category:Pursuit Driving]]
Pursuit driving will be IAW AFI 31-118, Attachment 6, paragraph A6.3. The Flight Chief must authorize a pursuit on-base and off-base. If it becomes necessary to pursure off-base, notify civilian authorities and relinquish pursuit as soon as civilian police are able to take over the pursuit. '''''NOTE:''''' The above guidance does not apply in the recovery of nuclear, biological or chemical weapons and/or their components. Unless approved by the Flight Chief or higher, all pursuits on base are designated soft pursuits. A soft pursuit consist of the following the suspect's vehicle from a safe distance to observe direction of travel and not utilize the overhead lights and sirens. A soft pursuit is intended to keep the target vehicle in sight from a safe distance while attempting to funnel the target vehicle towards a designated choke point or roadblock. Every attempt will be made to avoid the need for high-speed pursuit by establishing roadblocks, using designated choke points, deploying spike strips and closing installation gates. If civilian authorities are engaged ina pursuit near the installation, [[IACs|IAC]] should close gates and/or block the gate traffic lanes with the Active Vehicle Barriers (AVBs). If the traffic lanes cannot be blocked and the pursuit continues on-base, Patrolmen will enter the pursuit at the direction of the Flight Chief. All efforts will be made to stop the vehicle without the use of force by utilizing roadblocks, designated choke points and gate closures. Patrols will discontinue the pursuit if it proceeds back off the installation unless directed by the Flight Chief.<ref name="one">377 Security Forces Squadron. (2017). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/SFS%20OI_31-118.pdf Law enforcement standards and procedures] (377 SFS OI 31-118, para. 5.6-5.6.5). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

<references />