[[Category:SFG ALL]]
<u>SITUATION</u>: DoE or DOD PL 1 resources are no longer under the custodial control of authorized personnel. Unauthorized personnel have gained access or possession of hte resources or critical components and will not voluntarily relinquish control. <u>MISSION</u>: (DCNI) To employ all necessary KAFB forces to regain custody of PL 1 resources. If the hostile force is located on-base, recapture operations are conducted. If located off-base, recovery operations are initiated.
:Application of AFCIA-R:
::(U) Nuclear Environments. The concept of the AFCIA-R process is considered an on-scene commander or tactical decision maker's priority of work. Application of each tenant transcends nuclear environments. It is important to note that in some cases, every facet of the process may not be used. For example, after a team assesses a situation, they may determine access has not yet been gained, and are thus able to apply final denial weapon fire to stop forward movement of adversaries. While assaulting the area to physically occupy the ground and sweep/clear any other potential threats is still necessary, ISD and restoring government control of resources may not need to be applied. (U) For tactical planning to be truly effective SF personnel must apply all of the factors that go into tactical decision making. Tactical decision making is a time competitive process that controls the tempo of the battle. Use the Observe, Orient, Decide, and Act loop (OODA Loop) to increase the opportunity for success. The cornerstone for mission success will be to achieve the goal or state of aggressive and continuous tactical advancement. (U) SF personnel must first account for the factors associated with security response and operating/physical environment (METT-TC, OCOKA, and AFCIA-R) as these factors will serve as the basis for the overall assessment. They must also have an accurate perspective and the proper battle space orientation in order to make clear assessments in relation to the nature of response. (U) The course of action (COA) developed should be based upon the best and most acurate data that is available to them at the time. Time is critical and response decisions should be made as quickly and as acurately as possible. Use the cycle of Observe, Orient, Decide, and Act to gain momentum and increase the opportunity for success. (U) While the application of the AFCIA-R process is a command wide standard, every tactical situation will determine how it is applied. Scenarios, to include actions, are used only as examples of how to apply the concept and are not authoritative in nature as specific actions upon contact.
(DCNI) Overarching Tactics. The following tactics are broad descriptions of friendly actions against the adversary and are broken down into six major movements: The acronym AFCIA-R will facilitate decision making processes and aid in the application of decisive steps for AFGSC Security Forces personnel performing duties in support of nuclear weapons. '''''NOTE:''''' While the application of the AFCIA-R process is an AFGSC wide standard, every tactical situation will determine how it is applied. Scenarios, to include actions, are used only as examples of how to apply the concept and are <u>not authoritative</u> in nature as specific actions upon contact.
:;AFCIA-R:
:: (DCNI) <u>Assess</u>: Immediately determine the level of access an enemy force has achieved or their physical proximity in relation to areas containing nuclear resources. The assessment phase is pivotal when determining what level of force to direct toward an adversary. Factors to assist assessment include; available terrain/concealment, camera systems (RVA), available helicopter units (with FLIR capability) and early detection via alarm indications (received by WSSS/SSCC).
::(DCNI) <u>Final Denial</u>: The last line of defense prior to an adversary gaining unauthorized access to nuclear weapons. Final denial fire is typically placed at storage structure entrances, identified avenues of approach, or at any weapon system access point. Final denial will be achieved by using weapon fire and may be used at any point during an attack. To the greatest extent possible, all forces should coordinate final denial fire to achieve interlocking and overlapping fields of fire.
::(DCNI) <u>Control</u>: The goal of control is to optimize available weapon fire and maneuverability through aggressive means to gain and maintain superiority in the defined battle-space. Suppressive fire directly on or in the vicinity of the enemy to disrupt hostile actions/advancement meets this intent. Suppressive fire can also be achieved through employment of a coordinated weapons mixture and creation of physical barriers to prevent an adversary from continuing advancement toward the resource.
::(DCNI) <u>Immediate Sufficient Duress (ISD)</u>: Those actions, proportional to the threat, that disrupt the adversary and delay them from meaningful work in order to prevent theft, damage, sabotage, destruction, or detonation of a nuclear weapon. ISD can be achieved through use of smoke, CS gas, stun grenade, weapon fire, or any other possible means to disrupt the adversary's actions.
::(DCNI) <u>Assault</u>: Actions taken by the security force to neutralize hostile persons in the area surrounding the nuclear weapon. Violence of action, coordinated efforts, and sound tactics on the part of the security force (SF, maintenance, helicopter integration, etc.) are paramount in this mission set.
::(DCNI) <u>Restore Government Control</u>: Physically regain possession of resources and locations containing nuclear weapons and ensure a minimum of two personnel are positioned to control entry to the affected area (as determined by the on-scene commander).
::*(DCNI) <u>'''L'''</u>ockdown ISD: to disrupt/suppress the enemy.
::*(DCNI) <u>'''A'''</u>ssault: to defeat the enemy force.
::*(DCNI) <u>'''S'''</u>ecurity: to establish security on the resource and ultimately in the area.
::*(DCNI) <u>'''T'''</u>reat: treat all wounded/dead and establish a tactical CCP.
<u>EXECUTION</u>: (DCNI) Concept of Operations. Recapture refers to actions taken to regain custody of a US PL 1 resource within the boundaries of a storage site, operational site/unit, convoy, facility, transport unit, or military installation where it has been seized by a hostile force/unauthorized person(s). (DCNI) Recovery refers to actions taken to locate, if necessary, and to regain custody of a US PL 1 resource outside the boundaries of a storage site, operational site/unit, convoy, facility, transport unit, or military installation from where it has been lost, removed, or seized by a hostile force/unauthorized person(s). (DCNI) Effective countermeasures must be developed to ensure timely notification of any attempt to capture or hijack a resource or critical component, and rapid, expeditious response to recover the resourc ein the event the resource or critical component comes under the control of hostile elements. (DCNI) Actions to recapture or recover a PL 1 resource will be undertaken immediately. Permissions to proceed with recapture or recovery operations are not required.
:Commanders will ensure that any unauthorized persons who have gained access to a PL 1 resource are immediately subjected to sufficient duress to preclude their ability to cause theft, unauthorized destruction, or detonation. (DCNI) The presence of hostages will not deter the taking of decisive action to prevent unauthorized access to, or capture or removal of, a PL 1 resource.
(FOUO) Follow-on operations should be the result of accurate assessment of initial reconnaissance information and planning by the EOC and the commander of recovery forces. All forces should know the deployment plan and should execute it smoothly. Specific recapture and recovery plans, to include specific actions to take for each scenario, procedures to follow in planning and implementing operations, and personnel required will be developed by [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20377%20SFG%20Tactical%20Assault%20Guide%202018.pdf 377 SFG Tactical Assault Guide]. (DCNI) Security Forces personnel will be armed in accordance with local instructions, to include M-4, M-203, M-240b, M-249, MK-19, M-2, M-107, M-24, smoke grenades, and CS/CN grenades. (DCNI) For recapture, theft, loss, or hijack leading off-base, the most important requirement is the timely deployment of Security Forces and civil law enforcement to delay, contain and prevent the removal of the PL 1 resource or critical component from the immediate area. (DCNI) Should the attacking force be of such size that preventive efforts would be futile, the responding force, as well as the aircraft support, will attempt to follow the stolen PL resource/critical component transport vehicle and advise WSSS/SSCC of the route of escape. They will also give any additional information relevant to the identification of accompanying vehicles. Every effort will be expended to disable the resources transport vehicle. (DCNI) Pursuit off-base by Security Forces is authorized. Generally, the sequence of events set forth in this plan encompasses six general phases: notification, response, containment, reconnaissance, recovery actions, and the securing of resources.
===Tasks===
The 377 ABW/CC will:
:(DCNI) As the senior AF representative, determine all actions regarding the safety of the resources and welfare of the local populace. Exercise termination authority over recapture and recovery operations. (DCNI) The presence of hostages shall not deter the taking of decisive action to prevent unauthorized access to, or capture or removal of, a nuclear weapon. Commanders shall take any and all lawful actions, to include the use of deadly force, to immediately regain custody and control of the weapon(s). (FOUO) Ensure overall command and control, senior guidance and any required support are provided to the IC and Security Forces. (FOUO) Declare an "Empty Quiver." (FOUO) Direct assembly of the CAT, when necessary. (FOUO) Have the EOC assembled for possible dispatch, if required. (DCNI) Establish communications with the NMCC and obtain permission before international boundaries are crossed in pursuit of a hijacked resource or critical component. The Department of State, through coordination with the National Security Agency (NSA), will be notified of any recovery actions in the vicinity of an international border.
The KCP will:
:(DCNI) Up-channel OPREP-3 PINNACLE/EMPTY QUIVER and all associated reports. (FOUO) Notify all essential base personnel to report to their duty sections immediately, and notify non-essential personnel to evacuate the affected area. (FOUO) Recall the CAT and EOC, as directed by the 377 ABW/CC.
The 377 MXG/CC through the 898 MUNS/CC will:
:(FOUO) Have Munitions Control alert all munitions personnel in the immediate area and assist in evacuation efforts. (FOUO) Ensure tow vehicles and other accessory equipment are available, when requested. (FOUO) Provide additional support as requested by the IC. (DCNI) IC IAW (NARP), ensure weapons are safe and properly secured for transport to a secure environment once recaptured/recovered.
The 377 MSG/CE will:
:(FOUO) Request EOD through KCP if suspicious devices are found. (FOUO) Ensure the on-duty Senior Fire Official (SFO) responds to the Incident Command Post to assume IC Responsibilities. If SF has established Incident Command, upon arrival of the SFO, the SF IC will brief and then transfer command to the SFO. The SFO will assume IC and assign SF to the Operations General Staff position to provide tactical operations to support the IC.
The DFC will ensure:
:(DCNI) Recapture efforts are immediately established by the direction of the senior Security Forces supervisor on-duty, to include a 360-degree coverage of the affected facility/area, isolate and contain the affected resource, provide final denial to all exposed PL 1 resources and evacuation of all nonessential personnel. Containment actions should include the use of installed bollards and closure of all restricted area aircraft, vehicle and personnel gates. Inbound/outbound installation entry points will also be closed to prevent the scape of hostile forces if the containment action in the affected area failed. (DCNI) If at the outset of recapture operations and the situation presents the opportunity for immediate entry and neutralization of the threat, the senior Security Forces supervisor will not delay recapture actions while awaiting the arrival of additional forces. (DCNI) Ensure 898 MUNS personnel are armed for defense of KUMMSC, and personnel take up final denial position. All armed 898 personnel wil be deployed for final denial as directed by the senior SF leader on scene.
::(DCNI) 898 MUNS Control and 377 WSSS/SSCC personnel will immediately access the two-person safe, obtain AECS Override codes, and prepare to operate AECS appropriate to expedite security forces response. The on-duty WSSS Flight Chief directs the use of override codes. Override codes are never used for squadron level and below exercises. (DCNI) 377 ABW/CC must authorize use of override codes prior to SF entry if a blast or fire has been detected in the affected zone.
:(DCNI) WSSS/SSCC implements a site defensive posture and immediately initiates a Security Forces recall. Accomplish applicable CACs as warranted. (DCNI) WSSS/SSCC up-channels required information and reports to the KCP, and notifies them when site containment is established. Continuously keep KCP advised of the situation. (DCNI) The IC directs forces to conduct direct pursuit of individuals in unauthorized possession of PL 1 resources off of KAFB/DOD, if there is a reasonable belief of their direction of travel, until relieved by the FBI as LFA. WSSS/SSCC will notify the KCP should off-base pursuit become necessary. (DCNI) Considering the insider threat, the individual(s) may have knowledge of procedures to gain access to weapons and recapture/recovery operations. Individual(s) may be armed and/or have access to Security Forces/maintenance LMRs. (DCNI) Ensure a senior Security Forces officer responds to the IC control point. (DCNI) Ensure all recapture or recovery operations are coordinated with the IC and all affected agencies (i.e., EOD, Fire Dept., and Power Pro).
(FOUO) The 377 MDG/CC will dispatch medical personnel to the IC entry control point to provide emergency medical care, when requested. (FOUO) Aircraft generation: 58 SOW will provide support aircraft based on availability of airframes and aircrew members.
:Aircraft may be used for multiple purposes including:
:*(FOUO) Surveillance and reconnaissance.
:*(FOUO) Command, control, and communication.
:*(FOUO) Air mobility.
:*(FOUO) Aircrews will only consist of permanent party, instructor, or evaluator personnel when practical. Aircrew personnel will be added to critical personnel list for base access during emergency and final denial fire.
:*(FOUO) Maintenance personnel will be added to critical personnel list for base access during emergency.
:*(FOUO) 58 SOW/SOF located in the WOC will coordinate with subordinate units to ensure aircraft and aircrew availability.
:*(FOUO) 58 SOW/WOC will disseminate any pertinent mission data to subordinate units through their current operations function.
:*(DCNI) Launch and/or divert authority for all 58 SOW aircraft will rest with the 58 SOW/CC. Airborne aircraft will be diverted to the incident scene or KAFB. If Albuquerque Airport is closed, the FBI will coordinate with Albuquerque Federal Aviation Aministration (FAA) representatives to ensure 58 SOW aircraft are allowed to recover and takeoff in support of LIRP operations.
:*(FOUO) Once notified, maintenance units will generate available aircraft as soon as possible.
:*(FOUO) Once notified and assembled, aircrews will make preparations for contingency operations.
<ref name="one">377 Air Base Wing. (2017). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)(DOD%20UCNI)%20KAFB%20IDP%202017%20IC%20%233.pdf Integrated defense plan] (KAFB IDP 2017 IC #3, p. 416-436). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>