The [[FCC]] and/or [[FC]] will meet all arriving '''REFLEX DELTA (RD)''' aircraft, obtain and authenticate crew orders as an Entry Authority List (EAL) and oversee implementation of all appropriate security measures.<ref name="one">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%201%20AFGSC.pdf WSSS operations] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 1, para 1.5.3). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>A separate [[Alert Response Code|Alert Response Code (ARC)]] will be used for all REFLEX DELTA missions. It is used in the same manner as the [[ERC]] described in para 2.7. above. Refer to REFLEX DELTA Plan, July 2013 for more information.<ref name="two">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%201%20AFGSC.pdf WSSS operations] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 1, para 2.7.2). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

'''(DCNI)''' There are two types of REFLEX DELTA aircraft(s) common to KAFB. They are classified as "Alphas" and "Tangos". Alpha refers to the USSTRATCOM's Airborne Command Post (ABNCP) and Tango refers to the Navy's Take Charge and Move-Out (TACAMO). In the event that Two-Person Control (TPC) material is present on the aircraft, a [[No-Lone Zone|No-Lone Zone (NLZ)]] will be established. '''Note:''' The security needed for a REFLEX DELTA is dependent on the mission status of the aircraft. '''(DCNI) Aircraft Arrival.''' Official notification of REFLEX DELTA aircraft arrival will come from the [[Kirtland Command Post|Kirtland Command Post (KCP)]]. '''(DCNI)'''The [[Site Security Control Center|Site Security Control Center (SSCC)]] will be the primary control center responsible for all notifications, recall of additional personnel, and logistical requirements for receiving REFLEX DELTA aircraft. The [[Base Defense Operations Center|Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC)]] will be the alternate control center.

'''(DCNI)''' Initial notifications from [[KCP]] will constitute a ''<u><strong>request</strong></u>'' to support a REFLEX DELTA mission. [[SSCC]] controllers should not confuse this request to support with ''official approval'' to support. Upon receiving a request, [[SSCC]] will immediately contact operations leadership and pass along pertinent information via the [[377 Weapons System Security Squadron|377th Weapons System Security Squadron (WSSS)]] encryption matrix. '''(FOUO)''' Operations leadership will contact all flight leaders with a mission notification and attempt to identify manning, duty position certification, or weapon certification shortfalls. [[SSCC]] controllers amy be asked to aid with these notifications to flight leadership. Flight leaders must immediately plan and coordinate as needed to post additional personnel. '''(DCNI)''' After all flight leaders have been notified and necessary manning adjustments have been projected and coordinated, operations leadership will notify the 377 WSSS Commander (CC) with GO/NO-GO notification for REFLEX DELTA support. The CC will notify the [[377 Security Forces Group]] Commander (SFG/CC) who will then relay a GO/NO-GO decision back to the [[KCP]]. '''(DCNI)''' If the [[KCP]] receives a "GO" notification from the SFG/CC the [[KCP]] will contact [[SSCC]] a seond time with an official notification/approval for the REFLEX DELTA mission. [[SSCC]] will then notify all applicable personnel via the [[377 WSSS]] encryption matrix.

'''(DCNI)''' Each on-duty flight has the primary responsibility to man any REFLEX DELTA aircraft. If flights cannot support manning for REFLEX DELTA aircraft(s), flight leadership will contact [[377 WSSS|377 WSSS/S3]] or S3O for additional manning and guidance. Upon notification of immediate or short-notice REFLEX DELTA arrival, recalled personnel will report immediately to the armory or, depending on notification information, report as directed for guardmount. '''(DCNI)''' 377th Air Base Wing (ABW)/[[KCP]], Bldg #20604, maintains the REFLEX DELTA kit. The REFLEX DELTA kit will contain: 
:*Four (4) radios. 
:*Six (6) radio batteries.
:*Twenty (20) pagers.
:*One (1) battery charging dock.
:*VA Gate remote opener.
Upon arrival on the parking apron, the [[Flight Commander/Flight Chief|Flight Commander (FCC) or Flight Chief (FC)]] will meet the REFLEX DELTA Mission Commander and brief him/her on the following utilizing [[Attachment 3]]:
:*Current [[Force Protection Condition]].
:*Localized threat assessment.
:*Current [[Duress Words]].
:*Current [[Alert Response Code|Alert Response Codes]]. '''Note:''' The numbers must differ from the [[Emergency Response Code|Base Emergency Response Codes]].
:*Any other information pertaining to the security of the aircraft and surrounding area.
Additionally, obtain the following information from the Mission Commander: '''(FOUO)''' Contact information for the Mission Commander (cell phone number, lodging building/room number) and place this information on the EAL. '''(DCNI)''' Verify the presence of [[Positive Control Material|Positive Control Material (PCM)]] and [[Airborne Launch Control System|Airborne Launch Control System (ALCS)]] critical components. '''(DCNI)'''The [[Computer Generated Entry Authority List]] (CGEAL) will have a space to indicate when [[PCM]] or [[ALCS]] critical components are placed on the aircraft. The presence of these components requires [[PL 1]] security and enforcement of the two-person control. Certified [[two-person control]] team members are identified with an "X" next to their name on the authenticated [[CGEAL]]. '''(FOUO)''' If the [[FCC/FC]] is unavailable, the [[Flightline Area Supervisor (AS)]] will meet the Mission Commander and pass along/obtain the information identified in paragraphs 1.1.5. - 1.1.6. '''(FOUO)''' If the [[FCC\FC]] is unavailable, the [[Flightline Area Supervisor (AS)]] will meet the Mission Commander and pass along/obtain the information identified in paragraphs 1.1.5.-1.1.6. '''(DCNI)''' An SF member, E-5 or above, will authenticate the REFLEX DELTA aircrew [[CGEAL]]. '''(FOUO)''' Obtain four (4) copies to be distributed as follows:
:*1 original for the REFLEX DELTA Entry Control Point (ECP).
:*1 copy for the Aircraft External Security Response Team (ESRT).
:*1 copy for the Mission Commander.
:*1 copy for the SSCC.
:*1 copy for the BDOC.
'''(FOUO)''' Pen and ink annotations are authorized for changes to the PCM and ACLS portions of the [[CGEAL]]. '''(FOUO)''' Deletions can be made by using pen and ink changes to the existing [[CGEAL]]. '''(FOUO)''' Additions may be made by providing separate [[EAL|EALs]]. '''(FOUO)''' Individuals with interim PRP Certification can be used for a "Two-Person Control Team." These individuals will be identified with a double asterisks "**" in the TPC column. '''Note:''' Interim Certified personnel can only be used as a Two-Person Control Team member if the other team member is fully certified with no restrictions. '''(FOUO)''' Requesting agencies must produce an updated version of the [[EAL]] if at any time the original [[EAL]] becomes difficult to use.

'''(DCNI)''' The aircrew will secure the aircraft (with a numbered seal) before leaving the pad/ramp. The [[AS]] will ensure the seal number is relayed to SSCC to be documented in the blotter. '''(DCNI)''' The Mission Commander, via SSCC, will be notified of any incident which involves the security of the REFLEX DELTA.<ref name="three">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%201%20AFGSC.pdf Flightline security] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 1, para 1.1). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>
===Posting Requirements===
'''(DCNI)'''Four (4) additional SF personnel are required for PL 1 REFLEX DELTA aircraft. For call-signs, refer to [[Kirtland AFB Integrated Defense Plan (KAFB IDP) 31-101]]. '''Note:''' The presence of Two-Person Control (TPC) material aboard an unoccupied aircraft requires two-person control outside the aircraft and will require SF personnel to be [[Personnel Reliability Program|Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)]] certified. '''(FOUO)''' Provide one (1) [[Entry Controller|Entry Controller (EC)]] to provide immediate internal response to the aircraft, as long as entry control point surveillance is maintained. '''(FOUO)''' Provide one (1) [[Close Bound Sentry|Close Bound Sentry (CBS)]], dedicated to immediate response to the restricted area and able to maintain boundary surveillance. '''(FOUO)''' Provide a two-person [[External Response Team|External Response Team (ESRT)]] capable of responding immediately to defeat the adversary before any negative effect against the resource occurs. '''(DCNI)''' Provide an [[Area Supervisor|Area Supervisor (AS)]] for the designated area. '''Note:''' The posted Flightline [[AS]] will act as the [[Area Supervisor]] for all REFLEX DELTA aircraft. '''(DCNI)''' Provide additional REFLEX DELTA CBSs as needed when two (2) or more REFLEX DELTA aircraft are present and collocated. '''(DCNI)''' When two (2) or more RELFEX DELTA aircraft are present, the plane will be collocated (parked next to each other) at parking location D10 within the [[Restricted Area]]. A single rope line will split the two areas. '''(DCNI)''' The EC will be responsible for controlling entry into the restricted area. Remember, the restricted area will be its own No-Lone Zone (NLS), and personnel from one (1) aircraft will not be authorized into the other area unless authorized personnel escort them. '''(DCNI)''' During increased [[FPCON|FPCONs]] ([[Charlie]] or higher), five (5) extra SF personnel are required for [[ABNCP and TACAMO]] aircraft. '''(DCNI)''' REFLEX DELTA [[Security Response Team|Security Response Team (SRT)]] leader and member. '''(DCNI)''' REFLEX DELTA [[Alert Crew Billets]] EC. '''(DCNI)''' Two REFLEX DELTA [[Alert Crew Billets]] [[CBS|CBSs]].<ref name="four">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%201%20AFGSC.pdf Flightline security] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 2, para 1.2). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>
===Security Forces Responsibilities===
'''(DCNI)''' Unless the [[ABNCP and TACAMO]] aircraft arrive for transient purposes and do not require PL 1 security and [[PRP]], SF are required to provide continuous PL 1 aircraft security for both the [[ABNCP and TACAMO]] aircraft.

<references />