[[Category:SFG ALL]]
===WSSS RECALL PROCEDURES===
This chapter establishes policies and procedures regarding the 377 WSSS pyramid recall and alerting system. Recalls provide the 377 WSSS/CC with the additional manpower strength to neutralize hostile threats and a means for sending reports up and down the chain of command. This chapter implements standardized recall procedures within the 377 WSSS, consistent with the 377 SFG and ABW Recall Plans. All personnel assigned to the 377 WSSS must be knowledgeable of these procedures.
;(FOUO) Six-Ring Standby
:Personnel must prepare themselves by assembling appropriate uniforms and equipment, and be capable of immediate response. Notified personnel will maintain the ability to answer the telephone within six (6) rings. Prior to departing quarters personnel will make contact with immediate supervisors and inform them of the destination and a phone number to be contacted. Consumption of alcohol, while on six-ring alert is strictly prohibited.
;(DCNI) Alert Gear
:For the purpose of the recall, alert gear is as follows: IOTV or plate carrier with plates and rifleman's kit attached, Helmet w/cover and NVG mount attached, gas mask (M-50) w/protective lens and carrier, DD Form 1574 (gas mask inspection card), gas mask fit test, gas mask inserts (if required), Operational flashlight, handcuffs w/key OR flex cuffs, eye protection (goggles or ballistic eyewear), IFAK (tourniquet and Israeli bandage on person only).
'''(FOUO)''' [[FCC]], [[FC]] and section superintendents are responsible for preparing and maintaining the current Pyramid Recall Roster for their flight/section. '''Note:''' The recall table and recall phases will be listed on all Pyramid Recall Rosters. Each flight/section's recall roster will be updated no later than the last duty day of each month or as changes occur. A flight copy will be provided to each person assigned to the respective section or flight. [[SSCC]] is responsible for providing Strength Reports (SRs) to the S1 when required.
;Recall Procedures
:'''(FOUO)''' Squadron recalls will be implemented in accordance with [[QRC|[[QRC|QRCs]]]], increased [[FPCON|[[FPCON|FPCONs]]]] or as directed by the 377 WSSS/CC or higher authority. The on-duty [[FCC]] and/or [[FC]] may direct the initiation of the IBF/SBF recall, as necessary. Upon receipt of notification to initiate a recall, the control center receiving the notification will inform the remaining control centers ([[SSCC]], [[[[BDOC]]]], and Alternate [[[[BDOC]]]] if posted). '''(FOUO)''' [[SSCC]] will be the primary control center for initiating squadron recalls. In the event [[SSCC]] is unable to initiate the recall, responsibility for initiating the recall will transfer to the [[[[BDOC]]]]. In the event [[[[BDOC]]]] is unable to initiate the recall, responsibility for initiating the recall will transfer to another office or agency as determine by [[FCC]] and/or [[FC]] or higher authority. [[SSCC]], or appropriate control center, will implement recall procedures using the Pyramid Recall Rosters. [[[[BDOC]]]] will make notifications utilizing [[ATHOC]] if necessary. Each [[FCC]]/[[FC]] or section superintendent will make notifications back up with contact status not to exceed 30 minutes. When contact is made, personnel will be told an unclassified reason for the recall, the type of recall and where to report. The [[[[BDOC]]]] will activate the klaxon to recall dormitory residents:
::'''(DCNI) Primary Klaxon'''. The primary klaxon is a steady tone. When the primary klaxon sounds, you must report with all appropriate alert gear to the SFS Armory, Bldg #20222.
::'''(DCNI) Alternate Klaxon'''. The alternate klaxon has the same tone as the primary, however, it sounds on/off every five (5) seconds. When the alternate klaxon sounds, you must report with all appropriate alert gear to the Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM) as soon as possible.
:'''(DCNI) Recalls during normal business days/hours:''' For members responding from outside the [[KUMMSC]] area, the primary location for recalls will be the SFS Armory and the alternate location is the CATM facility. For personnel inside the [[KUMMSC]] area ([[KUMMSC]], Squad Ops, Parking Area), respond to the [[KUMMSC]] armory with your alert gear for arming and posting. Battle Staff will be formed in the arming area by CC, SFM, S3O, S1 and S4. S3O will establish telephonic contact with the posting NCO at the primary or alternate arming points for coordination of responding fire teams.
:'''(DCNI) Recalls during off duty days/hours:''' For members responding from outside the [[KUMMSC]] area, the primary location for recalls will be the SFS Armory and the alternate location is the CATM facility. Battle Staff will be formed at Alternate [[[[BDOC]]]], Bldg #20452 by CC, SFM, S3O, S1 and S4. S3O will establish telephonic contact with the posting NCO at the primary or alternate arming points for coordination of responding fire teams.
:All personnel responding to recalls will respond to the appropriate arming point or staging area wearing helmet, flak vest with level IV plates and protective mask attached to body, when possible. Although it is preferred to respond in uniform, responding personnel may wear civilian clothes to facilitate faster SF response to the situation. '''Note:''' Ensure proper footwear is worn (i.e. no flip flops, slippers, etc). Mission critical personnel responding from off-base will enter the installation through the KAFB contractor gate off Gibson Road during FPCON Delta, unless otherwise directed by the Incident Commander. Entry is granted using a [[DBID|DBIDs]] authorized credential (i.e. Common Access Card (CAC)). Additionally, mission critical personnel are identified in [[DBID|DBIDS]].
;Personnel Strength Reporting Procedures
:[[SSCC]] will begin strength reporting as soon as possible and continue until all personnel are accounted for. This information will be up-channeled from S1 to [[SSCC]]. [[SSCC]] will report this information to the [[EOC]], [[CAT]], and [[[[BDOC]]]] as necessary. S1 will obtain the total number of military assigned, TDY, on leave and in hospital/on quarters. Report this information along with an updated number of personnel who have been contacted/notified of the recall to the applicable control center or Battle Staff. '''Recalling Personnel from TDY/Leave Status.''' TDY/leave personnel will be recalled only by order of the 377 WSSS/CC or higher authority.
;Communication Outage (COMM OUT), Recall Procedures
:In the event that a squadron recall is initiated during a communications outage (no access to electronic recall rosters and no hard line phone access), recall notifications will be made face-to-face utilizing pyramid recall rosters. If individual does not answer the door at the time of recall, leave a note on the door with reporting instructions and proceed to the next individual on the recall roster. Report back up the chain of command if contact has not been made.<ref name="one">377 Weapons System Security Squadron. (2016). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/(DCNI)%20WSSS%20SOP%20Vol%201%20AFGSC.pdf Wsss operations] (WSSS SOP 31-101, Volume 1, ch. 5). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>
===SFS RECALL PROCEDURES===
'''Personnel''' All personnel assigned to the 377 SFS must be knowledgeable of the recall procedures. '''SFS/CC.''' The 377 SFS/CC may initiate a SFS only recall.
;Definitions
:'''Six-Ring Standby.''' Personnel must prepare themselves by assembling appropriate uniforms and equipment, and be capable of immediate response. Notified personnel will maintain the ability to answer the telephone within six (6) rings. Prior to departing quarters personnel will make contact with immediate supervisors and inform them of the destination and a phone number to be contacted. Consumption of alcohol, while on six-ring alert is strictly prohibited.
:'''Alert Gear.''' For the purpose of hte recall, alert gear is as follows: plate carrier with plates and rifleman's kit attached, helmet w/cover and NVG mount attached, gas mask (M-60) w/protective lens and carrier, DD Form 1574, ''Serviceable Tag - Material'', (gas mask inspection card), gas mask fit test, gas mask inserts (if required), operational flashlight, handcuffs w/key or flex cuffs, eye protection, IFAK (tourniquet and Israeli bandage on person only).
;Responsibilities
:'''Pyramid Recall Roster.''' Will be accomplished IAW Paragraph 2.12. of this OI.
:[[BDOC]] is responsible for providing Strength Reports to SFS/S1 and may have to provide Strength Reports for the SFG, SSPTS and if necessary Weapons System Security Squadron (WSSS).
;Recall Procedures
:Squadron recalls will be implemented in accordance with [[QRC|QRCs]], increased [[FPCON|FPCONs]] or as directed by the 377 SFS/CC or higher authority. The on-duty [[BDOC]] Controller and/or [[FC]] may direct the initiation of the recall, as necessary. [[BDOC]] will be the primary control center for initiating squadron recalls. In the event [[BDOC]] is unable to initiate the recall, responsibility for initiating the recall will transfer to the [[Site Security Control Center|Site Security Control Center (SSCC)]]. In the event [[SSCC]] is unable to initiate the recall, responsibility for initiating the recall will transfer to another office or agency as determined by [[BDOC]] and/or [[FC]] or higher authority. [[BDOC]], or appropriate control center, will implement recall procedures using the Pyramid Recall Rosters. A trained [[BDOC]] Controller or [[BDAM]] on the ATHOC system will make notifications utilizing ATHOC as necessary. If the [[BDOC]] Controller or [[BDAM]] are not trained, [[BDOC]] will notify the 377th Air Base Wing (ABW) Command Post to make the notification on ATHOC. Each [[FC]] or section superintendent will make notifications back up to [[BDOC]] with contact status every 30 minutes until all personnel have been contacted for your flight or section. When contact is made, personnel will be told an unclassified reason for the recall, the type of recall and where to report. The [[BDOC]] will activate the klaxon to recall dormitory residents:
::'''Primary Klaxon.''' The primary klaxon is a steady tone. When the primary klaxon sounds, you must report with all appropriate alert gear to the SFS Armory, Bldg. #20222.
::'''Alternate Klaxon.''' The alternate klaxon has the same tone as the primary, however, it sounds on/off every five (5) seconds. When the alternate klaxon sounds, you must report with all appropriate alert gear to the Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM) as soon as possible.
:'''Recalls during normal business days/hours:''' For members responding from outside the [[KUMMSC]] area, the primary location for recalls will be the SFS Armory and the alternate location is the CATM facility. For personnel inside the [[KUMMSC]] area ([[KUMMSC]], Squad Ops, Parking Area), respond to the [[KUMMSC]] armory with your alert gear for arming and posting. Battle Staff will be formed in the arming area by CC, SFM, S3O, S1 and S4. S3O will establish telephonic contact with the posting NCO at the primary or alternate arming points for coordination of responding fire teams.
:'''Recalls during off duty days/hours:''' For members responding from outside the [[KUMMSC]] area, the primary location for recalls will be the SFS Armory and the alternate location is the CATM facility. Battle Staff will be formed at Alternate [[BDOC]], Bldg. #20452 by CC, SFM, S3O, S1 and S4. S3O will establish telephonic contact with the posting NCO at the primary or alternate arming points for coordination of responding fire teams.
:'''All''' personnel responding to recalls will respond to the appropriate arming point or staging area wearing helmet, plate carrier with level IV plates and protective mask attached to body, when possible. Although it is preferred to respond in uniform, responding personnel may wear civilian clothes to facilitate faster SF response to the situation. '''Note:''' Ensure proper footwear is worn (i.e. no flip flops, slippers, etc.). Mission critical personnel responding from off-base will enter the installation through the KAFB contractor gate off Gibson Road during [[FPCON]] Delta, unless otherwise directed by the Incident Commander. Entry is granted using a [[DBIDS|Defense Biometric Identification System (DBIDs)]] authorized credential (i.e. Common Access Card (CAC)). Additionally, mission critical personnel are identified in [[DBIDS]].
;Personnel Strength Reporting Procedures
[[BDOC]] will being strength reporting as soon as possible and continue until all personnel are accounted for. This information will be up-channeled to [[BDOC]] by appropriate supervisors through the Battle Staff to [[SSCC]], [[Emergency Operations Center (EOC)|Emergency Operations Center]] or the [[CAT]]. S1 will obtain the total number of military assigned, Temporary Duty (TDY), on leave and in hospital/on quarters. Report this information along with an updated number of personnel who have been contacted/notified of the recall to the applicable control center or battle staff. '''Recalling Personnel from TDY/Leave Status.''' TDY/leave personnel will be recalled only by order of the 377 SFS/CC or higher authority.
;Communication Outage (COMM OUT), Recall Procedures.
In the event that a squadron recall is initiated during a communications outage (no access to electronic recall rosters and no hard line phone access), recall notifications will be made face-to-face utilizing pyramid recall rosters. If individual does not answer the door at the time of recall, leave a note on the door with reporting instructions and proceed to the next individual on the recall roster. Report back up on the chain of command and provide a list of all personnel whom contact has not been made.<ref name="two">377 Security Forces Squadron. (2017). [http://{{SERVERNAME}}/resources/files/wiki/regulations/SFS%20OI_31-118.pdf Law enforcement standards and procedures] (377 SFS OI 31-118, ch. 3). Albuquerque, NM: Kirtland AFB</ref>

<references />